---
title: What is 4k?
date: 2015-01-06T15:35:51+00:00
author: Redgadget
layout: post
permalink: /what-is-4k/
categories:
  - News
  - Technology
tags:
  - 4k displays
  - 4k videos
  - what is 4k
img: 4k-resolution.jpg
---
Well, 4k is 4 times 1080p! That&#8217;s the simplest definition. It has 4 times the pixel density or 4 times as detailed as 1080p. 4k videos look awesome on any sized display. That&#8217;s amazing! But why isn&#8217;t everything 4k already?!


The best answer in 2015 is &#8220;**it&#8217;s difficult**&#8220;.
  
It is difficult to shoot, process, display and playback 4k videos.

Read: <a href="http://redgadgets.com/quantum-dot-tv/" target="_blank">What is a Quantum dot TV?</a>

If you really want to experience how difficult it is, then watch the below video. Got to &#8216;settings&#8217;, change the &#8216;quality&#8217; to 2160p and try to watch it in full screen. You can watch it without any frame drops only if you have a 4k display.



CES 2015 has started today showing off a lot of 4k TVs. But do you really need them? Why do you need a 4k display if 1080 itself is so good!

It&#8217;s interesting that not so long ago people raised the same questions about 1080p when 720p was widespread and considered HD.

4k is the next technology and you&#8217;ll see a lot about 4k in near future.

If you buy a 4k right now, you may not find a lot of content to play on it than some of the Youtube videos.

Most of the TV media services only provide content up to 1080p. That means even if you buy a 4k display, what you see actually is exactly same to a 1080p display.

Final Verdict: Waiting for the 4k content to pile up is what we suggest for now. If you are one of those iPhone fans who line up before the outlet for a newly released iPhone, we recommend you to buy one and try!

Do you think 4k is worth it? Let us know in the comment section.

Thanks!